add announcement for dropping MacOS<10.13 (#1993)
conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io: src/user/announcements.rst

2023
----

2023-08-24: Bumping Minimum MacOS version to 10.13
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

We will bump the minimum MacOS version from 10.9 (released in Oct. 2013, end-of-life
since Dec. 2016) to 10.13 (released Sept. 2017, end-of-life since Dec. 2020).

> Several core packages in the ecosystem either now, or will soon, require at least 10.13.
> These packages include the C++ standard library for OSX itself, ``libcxx``,

Author: I've committed your suggestion @beckermr, and I'm fine if we leave it at that. I do/did find it relevant to note the relation between the SDK and how we ship libcxx, because I'm pretty sure that this aspect is understood only by very few people; I suspect that most users have no idea we support such old MacOS, or consider it black magic (regulars in conda-forge will have seen `_LIBCPP_DISABLE_AVAILABILITY` but that doesn't mean they understand how this works; at least I didn't for a long time).

Something like the following
```suggestion
The main reason we managed to support 10.9 this long at all, is that conda-forge is able to ship an
up-to-date C++ standard library for OSX, ``libcxx``, in its environments, replacing the old one
in the SDK.

However, several core packages in the ecosystem either now, or will soon, require at least 10.13,
in a way that we cannot be circumvent. These packages include ``libcxx``,
```

Reviewer: Sure go for it!

2023
----

2023-08-xx: Dropping support for MacOS <10.13

> ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Author: TODO: set date before merging.

Conda-forge tries to support OS versions as long as possible, often far beyond the support of the
OS vendor. For the last seven years, we have supported a minimal MacOS version of 10.9, despite
the fact that Apple has released new versions on a yearly basis, and aggressively pushes its users
to upgrade. One big reason that we have been able to do this at all, is that conda-forge is able
to ship an up-to-date C++ standard library in its environments, but we have now reached the end of
the road, as several key projects in the ecosystem are breaking (despite this measure) when

> compiling against such old versions of the SDK.

Reviewer 2: Is there a specific policy change to mention here? "Starting on <DATE>, the default target MacOS version for new and updated conda-forge packages will be 10.13, and as time passes, it can be expected that conda-forge packages will lose compatibility with older MacOS versions."

In particular, right now the body of the announcement doesn't specifically mention 10.13 as the new minimum — that only appears in the title.

As most things in conda-forge, support for such old versions happens on a best-effort basis, and

> we reserve the right to drop support for old versions as it becomes necessary for various reasons.

Reviewer 2: I think this is fine to mention, but the legalistic language might be a bit off-putting for a community project. We could write something like: "... and unfortunately there comes a point when it is no longer practical to support certain systems."

2023
----

2023-08-24: Bumping Minimum MacOS version to 10.13
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

We will bump the minimum MacOS version from 10.9 (released in Oct. 2013, end-of-life since
Dec. 2016) to 10.13 (released Sept. 2017, end-of-life since Dec. 2020). The main reason we
managed to support 10.9 this long at all, is that conda-forge is able to ship an up-to-date
C++ standard library for OSX, ``libcxx``, superseding the old one present in the MacOS SDK
on the system (at least from the point-of-view of the respective conda environments).

However, several core packages in the ecosystem now require at least 10.13 (or will very soon),
in a way that we cannot be circumvent. These packages include ``libcxx``,
`starting <https://discourse.llvm.org/t/libc-bumping-minimal-deployment-target-for-building-the-dylib-static-library-on-macos/68912>`_
with version 17.0.
This change will not affect already published artifacts, but in the near future, all new builds

> for OSX will require at least 10.13. This constraint will be implemented through the ``__osx``

Author: Fair point. Though this has been in use for quite a while as _the_ [mechanism](https://conda-forge.org/docs/maintainer/knowledge_base.html#requiring-newer-macos-sdks) for reflecting bumps in `MACOSX_DEPLOYMENT_TARGET`. In other words, users on old MacOS + conda<4.8 will already wrongly get a number of packages that are broken for them.

Conda 4.8 is also [almost](https://github.com/conda/conda/releases/tag/4.8.0) 4 years old, so I doubt that this has a blast radius (it's a subset of MacOS <10.13 users, which is apparently a microscopic minority if the [download numbers](https://discuss.python.org/t/moving-packaging-and-installers-to-macos-10-13-as-a-minimum/31907/5?u=h-vetinari) from pillow are any guide).

> for OSX will require at least 10.13. This constraint will be implemented through the ``__osx``

Reviewer: Yes this is why I mentioned the package in the announcement. If we put it in constrains we can avoid a lot of breakage but we have to decide.

> virtual package, but the details of how we will achieve this are still being worked out. Only conda versions 4.8.0 or newer have this virtual package. If you are using a system with MacOS older than 10.13 and are using conda older than 4.8.0, you will need to either upgrade `conda` to at least `4.8.0` or upgrade your system to at least MacOS 10.13.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
virtual package, but the details of how we will achieve this are still being worked out. Only ``conda`` versions 4.8.0 or newer have this virtual package. If you are using a system with MacOS older than 10.13 and are using ``conda`` older than 4.8.0, you will need to either upgrade ``conda`` to at least 4.8.0 or upgrade your system to at least MacOS 10.13.
```

2023
----

> 2023-08-24: Dropping support for MacOS <10.13
> ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
> 
> Conda-forge tries to support OS versions as long as possible, often far beyond the support of the
> OS vendor. For the last seven years, we have supported a minimal MacOS version of 10.9 (released in
> Oct. 2013, end-of-life since Dec. 2016), despite the fact that Apple has released new versions on a
> yearly basis, and aggressively pushes its users to upgrade.
> 
> One big reason that we have been able to do this at all, is that conda-forge is able to ship an
> up-to-date C++ standard library in its environments. However, have now reached the end of the road
> on this, as several key projects in the ecosystem are breaking despite this measure when compiling
> (or even just running!) against such old versions of the SDK.
> 
> For now we are doing the absolute minimum bump which is necessary to unblock those key packages.
> It's worth noting that this does not affect already-published artifacts, but going forward, our
> builds will require at least MacOS 10.13 (released Sept. 2017, end-of-life since Dec. 2020).
> 
> As most things in conda-forge, support for such old versions happens on a best-effort basis, and
> and unfortunately there comes a point when it is no longer practical to support certain systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2023-08-24: Bumping Minimum MacOS version to 10.13
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

We will bump the minimum MacOS version from 10.9 (released in
Oct. 2013, end-of-life since Dec. 2016) to 10.13 (released Sept. 2017, end-of-life since Dec. 2020). Several core packages in the ecosystem either now, or will soon, require at least 10.13. These packages include the C++ standard library for OSX itself, ``libcxx``, starting with version 17. (**TODO: link to RFC from llvm**) This change will not affect already published artifacts, but in the near future, all new builds for OSX will require at least 10.13. This constraint will be implemented through the ``__osx`` virtual package, but the details of how we will achieve this are still being worked out.
```

Reviewer: Here is my suggested text @h-vetinari. I went for a brief note explaining the bare minimum and what users can expect.
